Now that we have a BPC with a function and Internet gateway attached,
let's continue expanding our infrastructure.
If we go back to our reference,
which is this graphic right here,
we already have an Internet gateway,
and we already have the BPC,
now it's time for us to create subnets,
which we're going to do that in the different availability zones.
So let's get to the fun part.
So going back to our reference document,
I see here that we have a public subnet and a couple of private subnets,
let's go ahead and use those.
So I'm going to mark this text here,
and then we're going to discuss it.
Then get over to our file,
we're going to add it to the end here.
Let me minimize this for us to be able to see more with the screen.
The formatting is not ideal,
so I'm going to select it again,
and I'm going to do Shift-Tab to bring it back a little, there it is.
So now let's discuss these new elements that we added here.
So we just added a public subnet,
which we're calling public subnet 1,
public subnet 2, private subnet 1, and private subnet 2.
Let's see what they are. They all have the type of EC2 subnet, and of course,
the first parameter that they have is a reference to
the BPC resource because
our CloudFormation needs to know where you're trying to deploy this.
Now, this is the first time that we're seeing the Select function from CloudFormation.
The Select function, what it does is,
it'll pick a value from a list of values that you provide.
In this case, the list of values is also a function,
which we're calling GetAZs,
what this function will do is,
it will give you a list of availability zones that
are available to you in this particular geographical area.
I believe if this were using us-west-2,
which is Oregon in the United States,
it'll probably provide us back with,
I think, three or four values,
which would be us-west-2 A,
B, and C, and so on.
What we're doing here was just picking value number 1 for private subnet 2.
Keep in mind that these are arrays,
like it would be in a programming language,
so the first value is really index with the number 0.
So number 1 would be the second value on that list.
We don't really care which values are
returned to us or in which order they're returned to us,
that doesn't really matter,
we would just want to be sure that private subnet 1 is
in a different availability zone than private subnet 2.
We just want to be sure that they're in separate building locations.
So hopefully, that explains the Select function and the GetAZs function.
The next value will be the CIDR block for this subnet,
which has to be a subnet or a subnetwork of the overall BPC.
So if we have a BPC that is 10.0.0/16,
it will be a subset for the specific subnets.
The CIDR block parameter for the private subnets has to be as subnetwork
or a small subset of what the BPC has to offer.
So if the BPC is 10.0.0.0/16,
you can have subnets that are dot one,
dot two, dot three, and so on.
This additional parameter here, which says,
"Map public IP on launch set to false," you can play with that.
It just means that if you deploy a server,
is it automatically going to get a public IP or not?
That's up to you, it doesn't matter.
Because of the routing that we're going to assign to the private subnets,
even if you, by mistake,
assign a public IP,
it's still perfectly fine,
because it won't be routable from the outside,
because of the routing rules.
Again, as we're following the same practice regarding tags,
so if I have hundreds of subnets,
I want to be sure that I know to which CloudFormation stock they belong or to which BPC,
something like that, so we assign the name tag,
and I'm using the environment name viable for that purpose.
There is really no difference at this time
between the private subnet and the public subnet.
So if we're looking at the code here,
they all look exactly the same,
it's just the difference in the selection of the availability zone.
In this case, we have zero for public subnet 1,
and one for public subnet 2.
Again, we don't know exactly for sure what zero and one are going to be replaced with
because it's going to change depending on the geographical region where you deploy this.
So let's run this. Let's see what happens.